All right can you guys hear me okay?
My voice is a little hoarse after being out late every
single night with everybody and going on about at proto so I
apologize I sound a little rough here I have some I'm
still on note a little bit so I have some prepared remarks
and then we can kind of do some questions if that's
helpful so let's see here a handful of oligarch
s control transformative technologies that have reshaped the world in
a generation they foist negative externalities upon us vertically integrate
us into servitude and entrap us into network effects that
we cannot escape I'm talking about the Gilded Age
but that also describes our moment right now some Gilded
Age problems even look the same these goblins representing the
diminished information landscape of the 1880s echo our own current
degraded moment of AI slop rage bait and corporate capture the
Gilded Age ended though back then the transformative network was
rail early company started with unique track gauges then relied on
that as a competitive moat entire eventually entire train loads would
have to unload and reload at the edges of proprietary networks just
to continue a journey people accepted this absurdity until they did
not the standard gauge followed rail became commoditized in inter
operable and companies that were dependent on that network lock-
in collapsed in our Gilded Age the transformative network is
the attention economy and in the attention economy algorithms are the engines
that convert our time into their revenue incumbents built empires
on proprietary algorithms trapped in walled gardens and like the train
passengers we're realizing the absurdity of algorithmic entrap
ment that we don't have to accept it and that the
legacy platforms are now starting to pivot and panic in sixteen months
of being online we've hit some good numbers we're personally
thrilled by the traction but we think it's much more about
a real unmet demand about the basic functioning of the attention
economy people want way more control over their experience than legacy platforms
can provide the way that we enable user choice in algorithmic
feeds is simple we provide tools for people to use that are
simple no code systems that can be combined to curate and
shape any vibe for any sort of content that they want to
see in a feed and when those people end up creating feeds
that attract a large community we think that we can make that
sustainable with the same exact monetization techniques that power the rest
of the existing attention economy but place those tools directly enhance in
the hands of the stakeholders responsible for those communities one of the
best examples of this is Andra's news feed is And
ra in here yet where's Andra there's Andra
if you essentialize the value of a micro blogging platform
to a single thing it would be to get vetted news
right now Andra's also grown her news feed into a
news ecosystem with different tailored and niched versions of the core
feed to serve distinct audiences and their needs no wonder that one
of the most popular feeds is a direct carve out of this
affordance the fact that no other platform thought to create this
as a specific vertical in the last 20 years also speaks to
the dynamic nature of an open market of algorithms in an ecosystem
where people can freely build and grow an audience around their own
algorithms individuals can design the informational flows they and their peers actually
want and readers can pick and choose those experiences freely I believe
this creates the conditions for a more equitable more responsive and less
exploitative attention economy This isn't just about the long tail
of the reddit moderator slash wikipedia editor class of
the internet though one of the best examples of how we can
use this technology to start unwinding some of the harm social
media has wrought upon journalism was during the New York New
York City mayoral election we worked with WNYC to
build a feed that contained vetted information sources from newsrooms
to cover the election results in real time with editorial hands on
the controls which stood in stark contrast to the breaking news experience
on X which had stale cheap jokes and racist caricatures
that as the breaking news experience by recentering news media we
can use custom feeds as a vehicle to begin to re-
enfranchise their voices in these systems and all of this
stuff is going to be sort of aspirational and moot
unless we can build the big business case for this technology as
well that's why we're working with folks like the NBA
to design custom feeds that exactly match the league's ideal user
generated content voice because they actually have ownership of Over their algorithm
and they know what their version of ideal fan engagement looks like
they can create a feed that showcases the best of the
fan community while drowning out the polymarket slop screenshots that have
polluted other platforms and this is not just a story for
blue sky this is a story for every emerging platform in this
ecosystem as they grow and challenge their respective incumbents or create
new experiences altogether one of the greatest challenges and most powerful weapons
is the radical of the possibility of custom feeds just as blue
sky is showing the green shoots of feeds that outcompete
experiences on X so too can the teams taking on every other
legacy platform that is predicated on knowing what's best for
users in the 16 months of running this company we've learned
a few lessons and we've picked up a few things along
the way that may be of use to folks in the room
building out their own companies on the protocol the first and most
important is that is that fundraising is exceptionally difficult in the current
ecosystem in general and profoundly difficult with social media there's significant
headwinds in every direction most important and maybe hardest to
hear for some in the room is that at proto is not
growing exponentially which means functionally it is a non starter for
VC investment full stop also the AI hype cycle has all but
consumed available oxygen that would otherwise remain on top of that there
's a common misconception that social is solved we're sort of
at this end of history moment where the idea that large platforms
could ever be replaced is not an imaginable outcome in compound
ing slash reifying all of this is the VC herd mentality
no one wants to be last to an investment trend but no
one wants to be first either VC funding is harder in at
proto as well because you have to tick all of the classic
boxes and against all those headwinds while also being in
many ways the inversion of the classic VC bet one way I
explain the platonic ideal of VC investment is what if federal
crime but with a computer the idea being
that with companies like Uber, Airbnb, Polymarket, Open
AI, Bird, Lime, DraftKings,
Kalshi, etc.
the wager is that inserting digital infrastructure into what would otherwise
be the illegal privatization of a regulated commons or illegal
removal of a protection from privation is in many ways the
best investment a VC can make at proto is a complete inversion
of opening up a commons while also having to tick all
the other boxes that makes a company traditionally investable which is
a much more sophisticated argument that is much rarer in
its chance of success everyone's journey through this is going to
be so different that there's no real cheat sheet on the
way through funding the basic north stars are sort of the same
as always though you have to have an extremely clear theory of
action for why your product will become a huge success you need
a thesis for why you'll be able to get to that
successful outcome despite the existence of incumbents and you need an
initial wedge for how you can work from a starting point to
success to test that theory of action and thesis and honestly do
not mention at proto at least until it goes exponential again treated
as a vehicle rather than the story itself finally i want to
share my own personal belief of where i think the ecosystem is
headed at least in so far as our work at grays
is concerned at a high level we're at the intersection of
two tectonic tendencies in technology first technology is sedimentary
this isn't a new idea you can find this in media
theory or information science or sociology or very literally embedded in the
OSI model itself technological systems layer upward in increasingly abstracted
goals the lower layer concerns itself with the flow of electrical signal
a higher layer concerns itself with the liking of the mutuals
skeet the highest layer the the second network technologies have a
way of being forced open just as break gauge crises of early
rail networks gave way to the open standards because the friction of
incompatibility outweighed the value of the network
bundled proprietary companies like AOL who also stood at their
own end of history eventually get outmoded by open standards
like the open web we believe at proto is the protocol that
forces this distinction for social trains don't choose your stop power
companies don't choose your computer apple doesn't choose your browser
chrome doesn't choose your bookmarks at every layer of this
stack the carrier eventually loses control of the layer above it and
yet legacy social has treated the the user account as inext
ricably linked to what you see when you log in with
it that's never obtained for long at any other level and
we don't think it will obtain here now that the distinction
is being made visible the best that we can do is accelerate
this process but this is a contingent moment if we don
't build products that exploit this distinction we end up back in
the same structures and we don't stand to be able to
beat platforms with 1000x the staff 1000x the investment in
a 20 year head start by competing on their legacy bundled
experience terms the only way to outcompete them is to
change the rules of competition in exactly the way that history has
proven works against entrenched proprietary networks network technologies are not inherently
inevitable network technologies are not inherently inevitable they start as these id
iosyncratic cobblings solving a problem only slightly
better than before but they don't stand to be able to
beat platforms with 1000x the staff 1000x the investment in
a 20 year head start by competing on their legacy bundled
experience terms we've been
at this end of history
online before the open web of the early 90s was a
weird pain in the ass to use it was hard to see
how it would outcompete the bundled slick experience of
systems like America on Earth until it did we're in that
fragile weird point right now with the protocolization of the social
layer we get to collectively decide if we're at the end
of history at this layer we get to decide if the everything
apps get to get displaced by an anything protocol there are still
headwinds but the experimentation in this community still makes me
optimistic about the odds thank you Questions
?
Questions?
Come on.
I just want to congratulate you on what you built.
I don't think this community would be what it is without
Grease.
I would love to hear,
you know, you shared some of the kind of biggest,
like, banner successes of, like, the NBA feed,
the New York election feed.
I would love to hear, like, some of the smaller
ones or quirkier ones, you know, some of
the feeds or communities that were really exciting to you.
Sure.
Okay.
So I've been, like, in this milieu for 20
years in my work as half my career was in academia,
half of it's been in practice.
I started with doing research about the Iran election protests in 2009
and then the Arab Spring in 2011.
So that's sort of my, you know, sicko
origin story.
And one of the things that, like, breathes life
for me in this stuff is the work that Rich Farrow
and Zombie Gomone, I don't know his real name
, they are both, I know his real name, I
forget his real name right now.
He's known as Zombie Gomone.
You should follow both of these people.
They're amazing people.
They are part of this, you know, editor class of
the internet.
They built a feed collectively last summer while ICE was occupying
LA because they saw that they needed to stand up some sort
of ad hoc infrastructure to understand what was going on in their
community in real time.
That is exactly what we should be doing.
It is a gain of function above just using fucking hashtags that
it has to be an opt-in experience.
And that is the sort of, like, community resilience type
work that is what I talk about every time I get an
opportunity to talk about.
And then there's also just, like, a lot of
, like, weird feeds that, like, one particular person
, Roland Crosby, builds.
I don't know if he's watching from New York,
but he's a total weirdo.
And he builds, like, feeds with poorly cropped images
, that sort of stuff.
That's hurtful for my sponsor posts that I made.
Other questions?
So you had some comments on the investment landscape
, and there's this AI elephant in the room or in
taking over the universe.
And then yesterday we heard all of a sudden an AI addition
from the blue sky side of things.
Do you have a reading as to how the AI and the
social world from the perspective of investment are going to or ought
to or not to relate going forward to make this ecosystem here
more investable than it is?
Sure.
The story that I tell about that sort of thing is platforms
are being – there is a cat and mouse game for hacking
the attention economy.
When you have a centralized algorithm, the target is bigger,
the value of hacking it is, you know, it's
more valuable, right?
So a centralized platform is always going to be at a disadvantage
in terms of being able to prevent this sort of stuff.
Federating elections makes elections safe or unhackable in
some sense, because there's a huge surface area.
Federating algorithms has a similar effect to be able to prevent
this sort of stuff.
Also as, you know, AI-generated slop will
infect any platform, the ability for individual curators to be
reactive to that in their local community, I think, is
going to be a much more efficient system than just having some
sort of de-slop button.
And in general, the sort of shift is going to be
from the value of creators to the value of curators that
are able to filter this stuff out actively for their communities.
And all of that is going to be, you know,
that is the effect of AI, and I think it will
make this ecosystem grow.
To that same kind of point, do you think it's
, do you think investment will eventually just catch up, or
the ecosystem has to, like, change to fit the mold
that investment sees as warranted?
Yes, and I think that there will be some teams that
are able to come up with a totally novel theory that is
, you know, not hitting the walls that a lot of
teams that have, you know, came up at the beginning
of last year within the ecosystem.
There's going to be some sort of new theory, I
'm sure, that's going to emerge.
Otherwise, you know, I think the biggest boon is
going to be some VCs taking a contrarian bet
.
The first word in the acronym VC is venture, right?
There is some sort of risk involved with these things, and
someone will eventually have to take a chance on this space if
they want to see a return on that investment, right?
So, I think it's going to be both.
VCs need to get off the sidelines and understand what
the theory of the case here and what the opportunity is,
and then other people are going to have to shift strategies.
I wanted to ask you, talk about AI-generated
slop, and I wanted to ask how you contrast that to
the way that Graves uses LLMs to help folks
generate feeds, and how you sort of make that distinction when
you think, like, an LLM is being used
effectively or not effectively.
Sure.
LLMs should be fundamentally in service of a curator,
right?
They should not replace a curator.
These should not be systems that are, you know, simple
drop-in, just make this thing work for me sort
of experiences.
That is not a durable way to build software with LL
Ms, because, again, this is a dynamic adversarial
environment where systems will adapt accordingly, right?
Our theory is that, you know, what we built a
year ago was an AI-generation tool where you can explain
, I want this feed into the system, and then it
will design a sort of initial spec of, like, this
is where you should take it, and one of the other
benefits of it ultimately being a JSON spec, right, is
that it is an interpretable document, right?
You can share this document and say, this is how,
this is the logic of this space, right?
That opens itself up to other adversarial things, but it
's also a, you know, function of transparency, so
.
It's a view source.
Yeah.
Another question.
Devin, again, thank you very much for being a
returning sponsor, round two.
Thank you very much.
You've done so much.
We appreciate you.